---
tags: 
  - lucid-chain
  - CI/CD
  - workflows
  - versioning
  - Docker
  - semantic-versioning
  - development
  - commits
keywords:
  - Lucid Chain CI/CD
  - continuous integration
  - continuous deployment
  - GitHub Actions
  - Docker Image
  - semantic versioning
  - versioning
  - commit policies
  - branching methodology
  - pull request policy
authors: 
  - name: "Daniel Galván Cancio"
    title: "Project Contributor"
    url: "https://github.com/Dangalcan"
    image_url: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/92941017"
---

# Lucid chain CI/CD

In this section you are going to learn how Lucid chain CI/CD works. You will also learn about other repository details such as releases and working methodology.

## Workflows

import Disclaimer from '@site/src/components/Disclaimer.js';
import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert.js';

Now lets see the workflows that Lucid chain has:

<Disclaimer>
Lucid chain developement has been focused on its main purpose. Unfortunately, it does not have a lot of workflows. In the future we will add new ones in order to improve CI/CD cycle. Some future workflows will be autogenerated releases notes and automatic versioning.
</Disclaimer>

+ <u>***Publish Docker Image:***</u> This workflow updates [Lucid chain Docker Image in Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/lucidchain/lucidchain_wizard) when a new release is published.

+ <u>***Create releases:***</u> This workflow creates a release with autogenerated release notes following conventional commits v1.0.0 when a new tag is pushed. Each release will have release notes with a section for features (feat), tests (test), documentation (doc), changes in CI/CD (ci), fixes and patches (fix) and an *other* section where you will find style and performance changes among other changes related with the rest of commit types.

## Versioning

Lucid chain versions are created following a clasic semantic version. For versioning we use ***vX.Y.Z format***, where *v* means version. Changes are made with these meanings:

:::important

+ When changing X, Y and Z are setted to 0 again.
+ When changing Y, Z is setted to 0 again.
+ When changing any number, none of X.Y.Z can reduce its values.

:::

+ <u>***X:***</u> This is only for really big changes and it is not recommended to increase this number unless you made a tone of changes, structural changes or heavy API changes.

+ <u>***Y:***</u> This number for medium changes or a big group of minor changes.

+ <u>***Z:***</u> This number is for some changes, fixes, a group of features that increase quality, refactorizatins, etc.

## Work methodology

Lucid chain has been developed with only one developer at a time. Unfortunately, it does not follow the work methodology defined here in its first stages. However, after
***v2.0.5*** it does.

### Commits policy

Lucid chain commits policy is based on [Conventional Commits v1.0.0](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification)

All commits messages must follow this format: [commitType]: [description of the content starting with a imperative verb] where commitType can be one of the types described in [Conventional Commits v1.0.0](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification).

Here we describe commitType possible values, but do not forget to check them in [Conventional Commits v1.0.0 official documentation](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification)

+ <u>***feat:***</u> Introduces a new feature.

+ <u>***fix:***</u> Fixes a bug/something.

+ <u>***chore:***</u> Maintenance tasks.

+ <u>***docs:***</u> Updates documentation.

+ <u>***style:***</u> Code style changes.

+ <u>***refactor:***</u> Code restructuring without changing functionality.

+ <u>***test:***</u> Adds or modifies tests.

+ <u>***perf:***</u> Improves performance.

+ <u>***ci:***</u> Changes related to CI/CD.

+ <u>***build:***</u> Changes affecting the build system or dependencies.

<Disclaimer>
In addition to this commit types, we also accept ***doc***, and ***tests*** as variants of ***docs*** and ***test***.
</Disclaimer>

### Branching methodology

There is not one branching methodology stablished.

<Disclaimer>
In future versions we may add one but due to the lack of developers until now everything has been developed in main.
</Disclaimer>

### Pull request policy

There is not one pull request stablished.

<Disclaimer>
In future versions we may add one but due to the lack of developers until now everything has been developed in main.
</Disclaimer>
